CINNAMON CRUMBLE APPLE PIE
This is a high apple pie with a thick layer of delicious topping, this pie is just wonderful! I have even added in some cranberries with the apples, if you are adding in cranberries, then reduce the apples slightly. Use only Granny Smith apples for this pie, and other kind will become mushy when baked.

YIELD
Makes 8 servings

INGREDIENTS

Crust
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1/4 cup frozen solid vegetable shortening, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3 tablespoons (or more) ice water
1/2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar

Filling
3 1/4 pounds Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, sliced 1/4 inch thick
2/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

Topping
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
Vanilla ice cream

PREPARATION

For crust:
Mix flour, salt, and sugar in large bowl. Add butter and shortening; rub in with fingertips until coarse meal forms. Mix 3 tablespoons ice water and vinegar in small bowl to blend. Drizzle over flour mixture; stir with fork until moist clumps form, adding more water by teaspoonfuls if dough is dry. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic; refrigerate 30 minutes.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400°F. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 12-inch round. Transfer to 9-inch-diameter glass pie dish. Trim overhang to 1/2 inch; turn edge under and crimp decoratively. Refrigerate while preparing filling and topping.

For filling:
Mix all ingredients in large bowl to coat apples.

For topping:
Blend first 5 ingredients in processor. Add chilled butter cubes; using on/off turns, cut in until mixture resembles wet sand.
Toss filling to redistribute juices; transfer to crust, mounding in center. Pack topping over and around apples. Bake pie on baking sheet until topping is golden, about 40 minutes (cover top with foil if browning too quickly). Reduce oven temperature to 350°F. Bake until apples in center are tender when pierced and filling is bubbling thickly at edges, about 45 minutes longer. Cool until warm, about 1 hour. Serve with ice cream.

REVIEW
I made this last week to rave reviews and my second one is in the oven for Thanksgiving right now. Followed the recipe exactly, used the other reviewer's mix of Gala and Granny apples. For this second time I added some chopped pecans to the topping. I loved that the pie retained its shape and didn't have that collapsed look. This is my go-to apple pie from now on!
DISORIENTASIAN FROM PORTLAND, OR / 11.25.2015

This is the best apple pie I have ever made in quite a few years of making apple pies. I used a store bought crust and it was still delicious. I think just the right amount of seasoning. I will definitely make this again and strongly recommend trying this if you are looking for a great recipe
DMEYN FROM RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL / 09.05.2015

I just made this pie and it tastes fantastic! I was skeptical of the topping even when I took the pie out of the oven, but while it was cooling, the pie sunk a little and the crumble really started to look nice. It tasted great and the texture was good. Would definitely make again. I used 4 Granny Smiths and two other random apples I had around the house already.
ERICKAMICHELLEJAM FROM SAN FRANCISCO, CA / 12.29.2014

This is the link for the original article.
http://www.epicurious.com/recipes/food/views/cinnamon-crumble-apple-pie-108650
